# 2024-09-28

I've left a wildly scattered trail of bits across the digital landfill since I started with a SLIP/PPP connection in '94. Longer if you count Prodigy, Quantum Link, and BBSs. Does anyone else count those? We've come a long way from the days when my dad ripped my phone jack out of the wall in a rage that my long distance bill was in the hundreds of dollars from calling BBSs... how was I to know there could be charges inside the same area code? Seems unfair, tbh.

Anyway, I'm putting this site together to try to consolidate all of my varied activities and interests into one place. I predict this will go the way of every other personal site and blog I've ever done, but it's so low effort I won't even be mad. At the end of the day I just want the domain for my new name and a place to info dump on my projects.


# 2024-10-02

New project incoming, I've got a Spec5 Nomad Meshtastic device landing in a couple of days and am pretty excited to try it out both here in the woods where we get no phone serviec, and out in Boston next week to see what the nerds there are up to. If things go well I'm hoping to set up a big solar powered repeater on our hillside that should allow our pocket devices to communicate across the entire farm and beyond to where there actually is some signal.

From there, it'd be nice to have a home device that can run a Meshtastic BBS and also repeat things out to the internet at large. Starting out for the lulz and family communication out in the woods, but it'd be nice to have a local mutual aid system for those few times a year when the power goes out for a day or so. My solar + satellite internet setup could be helpful for folks who need help or to communicate out that they're ok. We'll see!
